1. The storks tell their young ones ever so many fairy tales, all of them
2. from the fen and the moss. Generally the tales are suited to the
3. youngsters' age and understanding. The baby birds are pleased if they
4. are told just 'kribly, krably, plurry-murry!' which they think
5. wonderful; but the older ones will have something with more sense in it,
6. or, at the least, a tale about themselves. Of the two oldest and longest
7. tales which have been told among the storks, one we all know--that about
8. Moses, who was placed by his mother in an ark on the waters of the Nile,
9. was found by the king's daughter, and then was taught all learning, and
10. became a great man, and no one knows where he was buried. Everybody has
11. heard that tale.
12. 
13. But the other story is not known at all even now; perhaps because it is
14. really a chimney-corner tale. It has been handed down by mother-stork to
15. mother-stork for hundreds of years, and each in turn has told it better,
16. till now we are telling it best of all.
17. 
18. The first pair of storks who knew it had their summer quarters on a
19. Viking's log-house by the moor in Wendsyssel, which is in the county of
20. Hjörring, near Skagen in Jutland, if we want to be accurate. To this day
21. there is still an enormous great moss there. You can read all about it
22. in your geography book. The moss lies where was once the bottom of the
23. sea, before the great upheaval of the land; and now it stretches for
24. miles, surrounded on all sides by watery meadows and quivering bog, with
25. turf-moss cloudberries and stunted trees growing. A fog hangs over it
26. almost continually, and till about seventy years ago wolves were still
27. found there. It may certainly be called a wild moor, and you can imagine
28. what lack of paths and what abundance of swamp and sea was there
29. thousands of years ago. In that waste man saw ages back just what he
30. sees to-day. The reeds were just as high, with the same kind of long
31. leaves and purplish-brown, feathery flowers as they have now; the
32. birches stood with white bark and fine, loose-hung leaves just as they
33. now stand; and for the living creatures that came there, why, the fly
34. wore its gauze suit of just the same cut as now, and the colour of the
35. stork’s dress was white and black, with red stockings. On the other
36. hand, the men of that time wore different clothes from those we wear.
37. But whoever it was, poor peasant or free hunter, that trod on the
38. quagmire, it happened thousands of years ago just as it does to-day--in
39. he went and down he sank, down to the Marsh King, as they called him,
40. who reigned beneath in the great Moss Kingdom. He was called also the
41. Mire King, but we will call him by the stork’s name for him--Marsh King.
42. People know very little about how he governed, but perhaps that is just
43. as well.